# Community Meeting Notes June 3, 2025

Community Council (CC) meeting held in Keybase. Meeting duration approximately 1 hour and 10 minutes, starting around 19:30  UTC.

Notes are truncated, and conversations are sorted based on topic but not always strictly chronological. Quotes are edited for brevity and clarity.

### _Community attendance:_

*   transatoshi_mw
*   natsu_nil
*   defistaker
*   trab
*   waynegeorge
*   aglkm
*   yeastplume
*   anonymous
*   cekickafa
*   wiesche
*   mammothine



# Short Summary

-   The council members voted to approve pending payments for Grincoin.org, Groundskeeper funding, and past server costs for Grinch.mw, to be processed after the new MultiSig is set up.
-   A new meeting structure was proposed and generally agreed upon: bi-weekly meetings alternating between a development focus and a governance focus.
-   A significant portion of the meeting was dedicated to discussing the current meeting platform (Keybase) and exploring alternatives due to accessibility issues and Keybase being considered abandonware. Telegram emerged as a strong candidate.
-   A suggestion was made for Grin to apply for membership in the Private Finance Syndicate to gain exposure.

# Agenda Points & Actions

*   Donation to Grincoin.org
*   Groundskeeper funding
*   Past server cost Grinch.mw site
*   Discussion on new CC meeting structure (Development & Governance split)
*   Selection of a new communication channel for meetings


## Initial Votes on Pending Payments

__trab__: I have a hard stop at the top of the hour

__wayne george__: Let's start

__trab__: Donation to Grincoin.org
Groundskeeper funding .
Disclosure of grin funds.
Past server cost Grinch.mw site.
I vote yes on all these haha

__transatoshi_mw__: I vote yes as well

__anonymous__: When we have set up the new MultiSig, we can start paying all of these:
-Donation to Grincoin.org
-Groundskeeper funding .
-Past server cost Grinch.mw site.

## Grincoin.org Donation Details

__wayne george__: How much was the grincoin.org donation? I remember I was in favour

__cekickafa__: it was about 950$, can be differ now, becuz it was 2024 Dec.


__transatoshi_mw__: That's one expensive VPS, they should look at lowendbox to find cheaper hosting.
But I'm still in favor

__waynegeorge__: A one off or ongoing? I'm good if there's also running costs. It's a nice service

__transatoshi_mw__: I know it includes development on the explorer

__trab__:  @transatoshi_mw
That's one expensive VPS, they should look at lowendbox to find cheaper hosting.
It includes the website, node, and work put in. I think it's cheap. A steal actually haha

__anonymous__: Yes, it is a donation. A bargain if you would consider development time spend.

__cekickafa__: i agree.

__transatoshi_mw__: I love the explorer so much I host my own instances. It is really a valuable piece of software.

## Formalizing Votes and Meeting Process

__waynegeorge__: What is the process of approval? A majority vote?
Should we use GitHub comments to record votes?
Then we have an easy to find record

__cekickafa__: Maybe,it can be done. Generally voted here, if no objectionsâ€¦

__waynegeorge__: So perhaps post meeting, we could formalise the votes on the meeting notes
Then we get on with making payments
So no stalling

__anonymous__: For each vote we could have a little table with in favor and against votes. Note that we also take into account votes of community members who are no in the CC
although those are not officially counted.

__waynegeorge__: I think we can present proposals well in advance to give members enough time to object if necessary

__wiesche__: Hi

__anonymous__: The initial idea we had was simple, meeting, followed by making payments. If everyone has time available biweekly, this is the most efficient
way to get signing done.

__waynegeorge__: Otherwise their non vote won't be counted
We just need enough voters to participate to keep things moving

__defistaker__: waynegeorge
I think we can present proposals well in advance to give members enough time to object if necessary
Proposals usually has a topic for discussion in the forum
 +1 anonymous

__anonymous__: Indeed, so the CC meetings is to formalize the voting based on the discussion of these topics on the forum and to work out small details.
  +1cekic

## New CC Meeting Structure: Development and Governance

__cekickafa__: Regarding the new CC, there will be one meeting focused on development and one on governance, just as it was previously. What do you think about this?
  +1 transatohi, anonymous.

__anonymous__: Personally I think this is a great idea. Even if there would be hardly any development going on, it is needed for motivation, trouble shooting issues, sharing ideas etc.
This can be informal, just a chat online with a cup of
   +1 transatoshi, defistaker, cekic

__wiesche__: @cekickafa
Regarding
the new CC, there will be one meeting focused on development and one on governance, just as it was previously. What do you think about this?
I think that's a good idea

__transatoshi_mw__: Sounds good to me

__waynegeorge__: So each fortnight, different meeting type?
one dev and one gov per month?
+1 trab, wiesche

__cekickafa__: yes, it was like that before.

__waynegeorge__: Ok, well I'm curious about the format but happy to try it

__anonymous__: Same here, for now it is an experiment.

__yeastplume__: I think I remember we did something similar originally

__trab_grin__: Could voting for funding happen on either meeting. Imagining someone needing to wait 30 days before the CC can address their request
%100

  +1 wiesche, wayne, cekic

__anonymous__: Indeed, I think Governance in #general and Developer meetings in #dev

__waynegeorge__: We're short of time for some. Are the meetings set for 30 mins?

__anonymous__: Thera are no rules, but normally we take 1 hour for meetings although sometimes it is exceeded and sometimes meetings are much shorter.

__cekickafa__: No, depends on topics

__anonymous__: And after the agenda ends, everyone is free to leave or continue the discussion

__waynegeorge__: Nice that's good with me

## New Communication Channel for Meetings

__cekickafa__: So any idea about changing keybase to another channel or that is ok here for meeting as usual ?

__transatoshi_mw__: cekickafa
So any idea about changing keybase to another channel or that is ok here for meeting as usual ?
Tromp can't access Keybase. I've already set up SimpleX where anyone can join anonymously and it's there to use.

__waynegeorge__: Keybase works for me. I have it on my PC and mobile. Do we want to change it to make meetings more accessible?

__wiesche__: @cekickafa
So any idea about changing keybase to another channel or that is ok here for meeting as usual ?
Depends on who you want to reach?

__transatoshi_mw__: No one uses Keybase anymore, it's basically abandonware.
If people don't like SimpleX I'll host something else

__yeastplume__: transatoshi_mw
No one uses Keybase anymore, it's basically abandonware.
agree it's been dying for some time

__wiesche__: Telegram has the largest reach

__yeastplume__: perhaps we can take an action to figure this out over the next couple of weeks and and propose a new default meeting place?
+1 cekic, wayne, wiesche

__anonymous__: Also worth exploring:
https://olvid.io/download/en/
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Olvid_ (software)
EDITED

__waynegeorge__: I like that
Telegram can have closed meetings so public but without the interference

__transatoshi_mw__: Please people check out grinchat.mw and see if SimpleX is sufficient. It's like telegram but private. To join use the QR or paste the link in to the SimpleX search bar.

__waynegeorge__: I tried it before but got an error. I'll try it again

__wiesche__: So many different systems, I would rather go for something that already exists

__cekickafa__: @transatoshi_mw
Please people check out grinchat.mw and see if SimpleX is sufficient. It's like telegram but private. To join use the QR or paste the link in to the SimpleX search bar.
Tromp was there?

__transatoshi_mw__: @cekickafa
Tromp was there?
Yes, he is on there.

+1 cekic

__wiesche__: transatoshi_mw
Please people
check out grinchat.mw and see if SimpleX is sufficient. It's like telegram but private. To join use the QR or paste the link in to the SimpleX search bar.
I understand your approach, but shouldn't we go where the people are?

__mammothine__: Sorry to interrupt, but X / Twitter Spaces would probably net the biggest reachâ€¦

__transatoshi__: If someone else wants to setup a telegram group, more power to them. I just haven't seen anyone else take initiative.

__yeastplume__: Ä± feel like we need to talk about this in context of 'where does the grin community live' rather than just worry about meetings
+1 cekic, wiesche

__waynegeorge__: @mammothhine I'd like to do that but that involves speaking right? Would we want to do meetings that way?

__transatoshi__: NO

  ðŸ˜… natus, defistaker, wayne

Not down for voice, Twitter spaces don't come off very professionally IMO

__mammothine__: Right now the community is fragmented unlike any other - I follow three Grin groups on TG, the discord group, Simplex, and Keybase. Bananas!

__wiesche__: Existing Channel

https://t.me/grin_CC_public

__transatoshi__: The discord is likely going away. There is only one active mod.

__anonymous__: For open meetings, lets stick to chat. We can always have private video chat if people like that. Twitter/X is a big no for me, just too bad on privacy.

__waynegeorge__: The forum is currently Grin's home I'd say

+1 wayne, wiesche

__cekickafa__: i agree with @yeastplume. Most of them on board telegram.

__yeastplume__: its easy enough to create new discord.

__anonymous__: have to check how "nym" friendly Discord is.
Also, warning, Discord requires a lot of active moderation, continuous attacks with scammers, spammer, shit accounts, you name it.

__cekickafa__: can we try this next meeting ? Telegram.

https://t.me/grin_CC_public

+1 wiesche, transatoshi

__wiesche__: grin.mw chat plug in

__waynegeorge__: i was thinking a plugin for the forum.

__agikm__: TELEGRAM. ALL cc members are there already. Simplex is buggy still
+1 wiesche

__anonymous__: Ä± can only join that Telegram account on an old burner phone. Telegram is also very "nym" unfriendly.

__cekickafa__: you can join with admin/owner as nym

__mammothine__: Session might be worth a look
+1 anonymous

__anonymous__: I guess I could. I have to check whether I made it a group or channel, for one you can use this admin function, for the other not if I remember correctly.
+ cekic

__yeastplume__: don't know of any nym friendly yet popular services offhand, there will likely have to be a tradeoff somewhere
+1 wiesche
unless we just go on IRC.

__transatoshi__: SimpleX is nym friendly, but buggy as it's still being built on the fly

__waynegeorge__: I'm good with whatever works for you guys!

__aglkm__: @anonymous You can hide your phone number from everyone in the settings
+ anonymous, wiesche

__anonymous__: Ok, so we have:
-Matrix
-Symplex
-Session
-Olvid
-Telegram
-Discord
-forum
-IRC
-KeyBase
As options, a lot to look into

__wiesche__: It's a really nice feeling, it's been a while since the place has been alive again.
+100% yeastplume

__anonymous__: TRue to that

__yeastplume__: we can try describing the problem to claude or something and get a list of options and tradeoffs
+1 anonymous

__aglkm__: we can try describing the problem to claude or something and get a list of options and tradeoffs
+1 cekic

__wiesche__: Dito

__cekickafa__: Telegram is where Grin people mostly fyi. I am fine with other options also

__transatoshi__: Aren't we all in the GrinCC telegram group already?
+1 wiesche

__waynegeorge__: There's an old public one

__cekickafa__: Anonymous if you can be the owner of new channel, you can have more privacy on TG.
+1 anony,wiesche

__anonymous__: Indeed, I can just allow everyone to chat there. Might get busy though, it was intended for announcements only. Perhaps I need to make a new one which is a group and not a channel, I will look into it.

__cekickafa__: you have to open a new one as _owner_

__aglkm__: You can open it for writing only in times of meetings, and close it after
+1 wiesche

__wiesche__: And delete the old one pls.
+cekic, anonymous

__anonymous__: Smart idea, this will reduce spamm
Any suggestions for the name of this new Telegram group?
+1 wiesche, wayne

__cekickafa__: Then it is decided on TG ? Lets not lost in the weeds much ðŸ˜€

__wiesche__: And we can invite the Telegram bot for donationðŸ˜…
Find it good.
+1 cekic

__cekickafa__: COC=community original council
ðŸ˜… wayne, cekic

__anonymous__: Actually, I though about that. Best to just stick to Community Council for various reasons. I will call the group something like Grin Governance unless someone has a better name
+1 wayne, cekic

__wiesche__: What is the name of the Council when we have merged? Still CC or?

__cekickafa__: GG it looks cool
+1 wayne

__anonymous__: Yes, we stick to the name Community Council, the GG or Grin Governance, sounds nice because of the double G
So only as group name
Only less suitable name for development meetings

__yeastplume__: Might be another thing to think aboutâ€¦ a new name would reflect that we're in a new era
%100 cekic, wayne, anonymous.

__wiesche__: true
Do we still have unfinished tasks for today?


## Private Finance Syndicate Membership Suggestion

__natsu_nil__: oh i joined to suggest something
since it's always a struggle getting exposure being as we don't pay for listings and all that:
https://xcancel.com/cryptonator1337/status/1928480870853497311
Nitter
CR1337 (@cryptonator1337)
The Private Finance Syndicate (PFS) calls on legitimate Freedom Fighters,
Cypherpunks, Lunarpunks and Crypto-Anarchists! Anyone who strives for
sovereignity through usage and develoment of privacy projects, to join the
fight against authoritarianism, censorship, and governmental overreach. For a
future in which financial privacy is ensured through decentralized, anonymouâ€¦
there's a group called the Private Finance Syndicate, a nonprofit started by LunarDAO and Navcoin a couple years ago. Their official site:
https://privatefinancesyndicate.io
they just opened up

membership applications for the first time in awhile and made a call referenced in that twitter thread for other groups to apply to
join
they're a nonprofit and raise money for privacy projects, promote them, etc. also, they recently shouted out Beam - so, perhaps the council should apply?

__waynegeorge__: There were some other agenda topics

__anonymous__: nil Did you already make a forum post?

__waynegeorge__: You may want to put this in a forum post
if you haven' already.

+1 anoyn, wiesche, cekic

__natsu_nil__: sure i will write one up later ! sorry first time here wasn't sure if it was walkons at the end:)
+1 cekic, wiesche

## Groundskeeper Funding Vote (Revisited)

__cekickafa__: which topic @waynegoerge?

__waynegeorge__: groundskeeper vote

__transatoshi__: i vote yea
+1 defistaker

__waynegeorge__: t's an old one so probably not much to add
More of an opportunity to discuss any objections

__wiesche__: i vote yea

__waynegeorge__: I think that @cekickafa should be compensated for the time put into tasks outside of CC role
+1 wiesche, anonymous

__cekickafa__: I appreciate your trust in me.
+1 transatoshi

__waynegeorge__: Lot's more to discuss. We can carry on in TG though
+2 cekic, wiesche

__cekickafa__: Meeting finished, any more topicsðŸ”¨ ?
+1 syntajax, transatoshÅŸ, wiesche, defistaker

## *TO DO List*

*   Set up the new MultiSig for the Grin Governance Council.
*   Process approved payments (Grincoin.org donation, Groundskeeper funding, past server cost Grinch.mw site) once the new MultiSig is operational.
*   Finalize the decision on a new meeting platform, with Telegram as the leading candidate.
*   __anonymous__ to create a new Telegram group for CC meetings (tentatively named "Grin Governance").
*   Implement the new meeting structure: alternating bi-weekly meetings for Development and Governance.

**Meeting adjourned.**

## The new Grin Community Council invites you to join the new Public Telegram group:

https://t.me/Grin_Governance

You can also find all further information in the forum: https://forum.grin.mw/t/introducing-the-new-community-council-cc/11793