
# Community Meeting Notes May 20, 2025

Community Council (CC) meeting held @ 22:31 UTC (approx.) in Keybase.
Meeting lasted approx 71 min.

Notes are truncated, and conversations sorted based on topic and not always chronological. Quotes are edited for brevity and clarity, and not always exact.

### _Community attendance:_

* transatoshi_mw
* ardocrat
* waynegeorge
* defistaker
* cekickafa
* anynomous

# Short Summary

- Discussion on prolonged CC member inactivity and the resulting governance deadlock, hindering payments and development.
- Proposals for a comprehensive CC reset, including a new 3/6 multisig arrangement, clear key-holder responsibilities, groundskeeper duty and a potential deadline for current key-holders.
- `transatoshi_mw`  expressed willingness to be a CC member.
- Multisig RFCs and potential development collaborations.


# Agenda Points & Actions

* Last meeting notes here: https://github.com/grincc/agenda/tree/main/notes 

* Current meeting [agenda](https://github.com/grincc/agenda/issues/173)

### FOLLOW UPS
- Grin Community Council activity
  - Donation  to [Grincoin.org](https://grincoin.org/)
  - Groundkeeper [ funding ](https://forum.grin.mw/t/cekic-progress-and-request-for-2025-groundskeeper/11615).
   -  Disclosure of grin funds.
   - Past server cost  _Grincc.mw_ site.  
- _Fixing peers_, [grin++ node bans Rust nodes](https://forum.grin.mw/t/funding-proposal-pibd-implementation-in-grin/11583/2).
- [Payment proofs ](https://forum.grin.mw/t/grin-product-wishlist/9704/61) fix

### Proposed Agenda
- [Resetting the Community Council (CC)](https://forum.grin.mw/t/resetting-the-community-council-cc/11749)
  - Put a deadline date for publicly and formally existing Key holders, delegate their signing authority to an active, willing keyholder, publicly announce  resignation from this role so the community can act to replace them.
- [Hiring  blockchain firm ](https://forum.grin.mw/t/resetting-the-community-council-cc/11749/17)to make Multisig for GRIN /@ardocrat
- [Funding request ](https://forum.grin.mw/t/funding-proposal-grin-integration-into-unstoppable-wallet/11765)for integration of Grin into the Unstoppable Wallet
- CC github [migrating the repository to  Gitlab](https://github.com/grincc/agenda/issues/173#issuecomment-2872428998) @transatoshi-mw 


## transatoshi_mw's Update and CC Candidacy

__transatoshi_mw__ : I'm gonna have to table my discussion til next meeting, been laid up from surgery and haven't worked on getting the collaboration space up
+cekic

__ardocrat__ : transatoshi_mw, You wanted to be CC member, still going up?

__waynegeorge__ : transatoshi_mw, Get well soon

__transatoshi_mw__ : ardocrat, Yeah I'm still willing, but hesitant thinking someone else would be better

__ardocrat__ : @transatoshi_mw, Please stay then

__defistaker__ : transatoshi_mw, Nothing serious I hope, get well soon.

__transatoshi_mw__ : Nothing serious, I'll be fine in a week or two

 defistaker (üëç), ardocrat (üëç), wayne (üëç)

## General Governance Deadlock and Call for Change

__waynegeorge__ : @anynomous isn't here yet?

 transatoshi, defistaker üëç

__ardocrat__ : He wanted to step back

__waynegeorge__ : From these meetings?
I knew in general

__ardocrat__ : Possibly, need to ask him

__waynegeorge__ : I understand his frustration
No support from other CC members for a long time

__ardocrat__ : @cekickafa is playing great role at social things, we have open problems in github, just lack of Rust devs, to attract people in Grin and to automate things with grin as payment, CC is political :)

__waynegeorge__ : Shall we go through the agenda still?

Yes, I really love @cekickafa 's dedication

ardocrat : No .onion link haha



__cekickafa__ : Ok. Let me start. We all believe vision of Grin - a truly fair, private, and decentralized digital currency born of principled contribution, not privilege. Mimblewimble, no premine, no instamine, proof of work. A different emission model. But now today is thatGrin's many governance, other social or code maintenance functions currently hampered by a governance deadlock.

__waynegeorge__ : Yes

__cekickafa__ : More than 12 months, some 1.5 years. CC members are absent.

__waynegeorge__ : Ok so ties into agenda topic 1 well
What do we do about it?

__ardocrat__ : @cekickafa, Remember why CC was created
To sponsor activity outside Grin Core development

__cekickafa__ : the processing of legitimate payments to some contributors who have dedicated time and skill to building Grin, have been stalled due to the unresponsiveness of keyholders holding necessary positions in our multi-signature controls. This is not only delaying payment issue.

Proposals for New CC Structure and Fund Management

__waynegeorge__ : So shall we create CC and call the old one OCC?

__defistaker__ : waynegeorge, CC v2 :)

__transatoshi_mw__ : Shadow CC

__cekickafa__ : @ardocrat, The inactivity betrays the promise that contribution to Grin is valued and reciprocated, poisoning the well for future development. I mean what kinda message this broadcast to outside ?

__waynegeorge__ : Seriously though. There'd be no point in creating an exact copy of the previous governance structure surely?

__ardocrat__ : I think CC Fund can be converted to Grin, so it will be motivation to develop things around Grin and finally start to use Grin as money!
Trustless way is Atomic Swaps

waynegeorge : What do the OC say?
Would they accept the funds back?
Are they all in control and contactable with their multisig? I assume so

__cekickafa__ : it would be a back pedal for decentralized governance.

__ardocrat__ : @tromp is only active person

__transatoshi_mw__ : waynegeorge, This is my biggest concern, when was the last time funds were even disbursed?

__waynegeorge__ : But converting to grin is an option but not sure if it's the right move
The Bitcoin boat is still rising and having funds makes sense for a (very) slow burning project like this

__defistaker__ : I back converting to Grin, but there is not much liquidity

__transatoshi_mw__ : I fear it'd be looked at as a cheap way to pump n dump Grin if we converted

__waynegeorge__ : A contingency plan perhaps. In case a day comes where needs must.
I think YP used to get paid regularly.

__transatoshi__:They're the "groundskeeper", right?
Oh no yeastplume nvm

__waynegeorge__ : defistaker, Someone suggested that buying option where all available grin just gets bought as soon as it appears

__cekickafa__ : @waynegeorge, New CC is for resolving issues at the moment we face for months. Implementing robust processes for keyholder accountability. Implementing clear, accessible, and responsive frameworks for defining, distributing, and efficiently handling payments related to future bounties and grants necessary for maintenance, security, wallet development, and community efforts.
you favor returning funds to OC ?

__waynegeorge__ : FYI, I think agenda topic *2* and *3* may as well hold until we figure out 1

## Specifics of CC Reset, Groundskeeper and Keyholder Responsibility.

__anynomous__ : üëã 

+1 wayne, ardocrat, cekickafa, transatoshi, defistaker

__waynegeorge__ : @cekickafa, Well two once active councils have now disassembled. There's a pattern that needs to be noted

__cekickafa__ : i think we need to set a deadline, already forum post passed 2 weeks. So 7 day deadline to existing key holders, demand to handover keys is first solution to this governance problem.
Grin‚Äôs governance relies on distributed trust, but when key holders ignore meetings, withhold funds, or refuse transparency, they recreate the very centralization we reject.

__anynomous__ : We need change it is as simpl as that.

__ardocrat__ : Al is future of governance

__anynomous__ : New 3/6 multisig. I can stay on as keyholder, mcmc mike as backup, other keys to new people


__waynegeorge__ : Perhaps we can lay out all of our options, starting with @anynomous's two posted recently

__defistaker__ : @waynegeorge, I don't understand how CC members being inactive related to returning funds to OC. It is more probable, members get busy with other stuff going in their life.

__anynomous__ : I also see no reason to return funds nor convert btc to grin.
+1 defistaker, transatoshi, cekickafa

__waynegeorge__ : Getting busy is one thing but guys are completely absent

__anynomous__ : But we do need a hard reset, resistance to change leads to stagnation.

__waynegeorge__ : That's a serious, deeper issue

__cekickafa__ : and will be, a public record.
Being busy is no excuse, not clicking a few button,saying hello. That becomes obstruction completely. Grin's governance history is, Those who contribute positively leave a legacy of code, discussions, and progress. Their past contribution and reputation overshadowing by these acts.

__waynegeorge__ : I'm just concerned about repeating the same scenario. i.e. we create a new council, then at some point, members disappear again

__anynomous__ : It is. Part of it is to blame on remaining old CC, they always wanted to sort of keep going and not change multisig, even though some asked to be 100% out long ago.
like Hendi and David T asked
So, we stretched it out too long in the hope things got better, but they got worse.

I think I will make a proposal on the forum some time soon. In summary, Full change, new Multisig, 3 out of 6 (2 old key holders) 4 new ones.
Also important for you guys to think if you want to keep @cekickafa as a groundkeeper.

__cekickafa__ : Every day this issue remains unresolved, Grin's credibility suffers. It tells the world that we are unable to effectively manage our own affairs, distracting from the enthusiasm of potential users, developers, and all ecosystem.
Who is other old key holder?

__anynomous__ : One major issue with CC is lack of continuity, I want to reduce or even step out as active CC member, I want to just have fun being at meetings as community member or keyholder. @cekickafa is appart from me the only active continous CC members.

__waynegeorge__ : It's a challenge for an organisation to be run over the internet with no central authority
But that's not to say it isn't worth trying to do

__anynomous__ : All current key-holders are old. I would propose both me and MCM-Mike stay on as keyholders, the other 4 do not get a new key. I expect I will be actively available, MCM-Mike as backup.
We reduce the treshold from 4/6 to 3/6 to make signing much easier.


__cekickafa__ : what you mean backup?

__defistaker__ : Thank you so much for your work as CC member @anynomous, Grin Community owes you a great debt of gratitude.
+1 ardocrat,cekickafa,waynegoeroge,transatoshi

__anynomous__ : I do not see what I am doing as special, I thought this was the kind of normal contributions to be expected from all CC members, unfortunately I turned out to be the exception.

__ardocrat__ : anynomous, You create positive attitude

__cekickafa__ : well frankly @anynomous was the backbone, he carried non stop.

__anynomous__ : Still, thank you for saying thankyou.
 defistaker, ardocrat üëç, transatoshi, cekic üëç

__waynegeorge__ : And consistent

__anynomous__ : But guys, as I said. I think it is also important to think if as new CC you would want to have a groundkeeper. I will be around, but if I am honest, I am being a bit tired of being the backbone. I just want to be a "part of a whole", not a backbone, not a leader, or in any way more significant than others in this joined little project.
What this means is that you will need as much continuity and support as you can get. I am warning you, administration and little task get tiring and having knowledge of the many passed discussion is rather important.
üíØ +1 cekic.

__transatoshi_mw__ : I'd personally be in favor of keeping @cekickafa as groundskeeper, it's gonna be a vital role during the startup period for the new CC

__anynomous__ : I think it is highly advisable, otherwise it will soon become a burden, reducing your motivation for the things that you should be focussing on.

__waynegeorge__ : I suppose we should start with our ideal vision for what we want the CC to be and work from there in terms of building it. @anynomous answered with his view before

-CC council members
- Join at least ones a month in the CC meeting
- Respond in chat when being tagged
- Check the forum weekly for important topics, respond to tags CC keyholders
- Respond within a week in the chat when being tagged and asked to sign a transaction
- Check forum biweekly and at least monthly to know roughly what is going on in the project.

üëç transatoshi, anonymous, cekickafa

__anynomous__ : I think we all need to "Sign" this social contract to know what is expected.

üíØ + 3 cekickafa, transatoshi, defistaker

__transatoshi_mw__ : _taps screen to sign_

__anynomous__ : Don't worry, we wont expect perfection, just commitment to do our best.

__cekickafa__ : Lessons learnt. Dont worry

__waynegeorge__ : We may want to add some clarifications. So responding to tags, up to how many per week for example
In case things got busy

__anynomous__ : I think there is no rule here, but if it becomes too much, you simply say, I got other things to do, that is also a reply. So only one time check is needed.

Again, it is not about perfection, but it can hardly get worse than not joining meetings in 6 months, not responding

__waynegeorge__ : Also, funding requests can become time consuming. We should have a way to manage time spent
Perhaps stages, so we don't dwell too long on no-goers

__anynomous__ : It can become tiring, but too be realistic, they are not that frequent. It should be manageable, If we only need 3 out of 6 signatures, that means you only need to sign in 50% of the approved funding requests. Thats perhaps 3x per year.

__waynegeorge__ : Sadly, they didn't even respond to my asking why it was too much!

anynomous : Nor the private message I send to them.
But again, it is also our fault for not properly listening to them before when they said they did not have time anymore.
Ok, so what do we need to do?
I guess I need to make a sort of summarize post on the forum.
For those of you who have not done so yet, perhaps make an introduction post about yourself as 'CC candidate'

__transatoshi_mw__ : So each candidate make their own post?

__anynomous__ : I do not think there will be elections, but there will be opportunity for everyone to agree or disagree with the major change we will propose and possibility to raise objections against candidates.

__cekickafa__ : All candidates declared on ' Resetting CC" post.

__anynomous__ : O, that is great.
I thougt not everyone introduced their motivation to want to join the CC yet

__cekickafa__ : Now we have @aglkm , weische, wayne and @transatoshi_mw . 4 ofthem.

__anynomous__ : @cekickafa Do you want to be just groundkeeper, or CC representative or keyholder?

__transatoshi_mw__ : I'm glad it's not being decided by likes this time, I posted first so that gives me an advantage.

__anynomous__ : Also we need to know if @trinitron and @trab still want to actively be part of CC

__cekickafa__ : CC representative? idk what its useful for? Groundskeeper i can stay, it would be not problematic if new CC members actively govern things.
Key holder, i can be also if needed.

__anynomous__ : Ok, I will also see. If there are enough new members, I will step back to only become key-holder, if not I will stay on.
It does not matter, I will probably still join meetings, but I like to have a more laid back perspective
I got to go now

__waynegeorge__ : anynomous, I don't think trinitron does as he offered his representative position to me

__transatoshi_mw__ : BYE üëã 

anynomous : Thanks all for being here

üëã cekic, ardocrat,transatoshi,defistaker

waynegeorge : No worries. Let's catch up on forum

## Community Tools

__waynegeorge__ : One thing that I think would help would be to have a tool that can summarise and organise various forum topics. Perhaps a real-time chat bot that can answer questions on current affairs
+2 anonymous, ardocrat

__transatoshi_mw__ : Agreed, and it'll loosen the load for you a lot more smoothly

__anynomous__ : That is an excellent idea. Tari project also has something similar

__cekickafa__ : good idea.

__waynegeorge__ : There's so much knowledge and info in there (forum)

__anynomous__ : We can feed the Al with the wiki, forum and frequently asked questions. We can start collecting them on github, then move them to another platform if we find something better

__ardocrat__ : onion link for privacy

__transatoshi_mw__ : I've been doing research and trying out some different platforms for just that, I'll have more info next meeting.

__waynegeorge__ : I think even the groundskeeping work could be automated. Not taking anything away from @cekickafa's work. Just thinking about ways to free up time from laborious tasks and make space for creativity

__anynomous__ : Cool. I will work on better wiki documentation. I am a bit upset no one wrote anything about bulletproofs and their importance, I got all my information from Tari for god sake.
+1 ardocrat, cekickafa

__cekickafa__ : welll Ai will replace many people :)

__anynomous__ : Perhaps we can use Al to summarize a meeting, not sure if it will do well, but we can try.,

__ardocrat__ : cekickafa, But you need administrator
+1 anonymous, cekickafa

__anynomous__ : But many things Al cannot do well like administration, indeed.


__waynegeorge__ : Some things I'm wary of giving Al agency over

__anynomous__ : Well, as long as Al does not get to manage our MultiSig
But I get what you mean, I only want local Al for most things.

## 3) Multisig Implementation and Development

__cekickafa__ : Well that multisig topic is important also. @ardocrat ?

__ardocrat__ : cekickafa, Its still open rfc for Core development, maybe Unstoppable wallet devs got interested, they wanted to create Java and Swift connectors for their wallet it seems
+1 cekic

__cekickafa__ : Maybe put also another bounty?

__ardocrat__ : I think about posting vacancies at Rust communities to implement such things by professional known cryptographers, question about security, this is where science is needed

__cekickafa__ : So audit ?

__ardocrat__ : Sure, MWC has this implementation, we dont know how its secure

__cekickafa__ : i think no need to kick the can down the road about this multisig anymore.

__ardocrat__ : Questions remained unanswered

https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-rfcs/pull/85

__anynomous__ : The design for multisig is also very nicely explained by tarilabs.

https://tlu.tarilabs.com/mimblewimble/mimblewimble-mb-bp-utxo

üíØ
+2 trab, cekickafa, defistaker

__ardocrat__ : Maybe we can cooperate with Tari?

__cekickafa__: Maybe. New CC to be proactive a bit.

__ardocrat__ : Pay them with BTC to implement, very transparent, they are not anons, if they have time, they are Rust devs

__anynomous__ : They know grin, quite a bit of overlap in people working on both projects if you ask me

__cekickafa__ : Lets contact with them then.
+1 ardocrat, defistaker

__ardocrat__ : They can contribute I guess
MimbleWimble is base
We have common problems

## 4) Unstoppable Wallet Request

__cekickafa__ : Unstoppable wallet representative is absent for the record.


 **Meeting adjourned.**

### TO DO List

- `anynomous`: To make a forum post summarizing the proposals for CC reset
- Explore colllaboration for multisig development.
- New CC (once formed): To discuss and potentially implement a "social contract" for CC member and keyholder responsibilities.


