# Community Meeting Notes February 11, 2025

Community Council (CC) meeting held in Keybase. Meeting duration not stated, assumed short (30-45 minutes).

Notes are truncated, and conversations sorted based on topic and not always chronological. Quotes are edited for brevity and clarity, and not always exact.

### _Community attendance:_

* cekickafa
* anynomous

# Short Summary

- Update on Grincoin.org donation transaction and its status for #Todo.
- Discussion on Groundkeeper progress report and awaiting feedback from other CC members on funding request.

# Agenda Points & Actions

* Groundskeeper Report and Funding Request

## Groundskeeper Funding

__cekickafa__: Agenda. [https://github.com/grincc/agenda/issues/155](https://github.com/grincc/agenda/issues/155)

__anynomous__: Joining on mobile, so I will let others do most of the talking.

__cekickafa__: Ok, i think grincoin.org donation tx drafted and ready to sign for #Todo. Only topic is about groundskeeper progress report and funding request.
+1 anynomous

__anynomous__: Would be nice if more CC members would join in to discuss the funding.ðŸ¤ž

__cekickafa__: well, we adjust the time for this but..

__anynomous__: Indeed...
I already gave my opinion on your request on the forum, other CC members should do the same. Kind of hard to mobilize them even though Trab is active on the forum.
We should tag them in the request post on the forum.
Also to bump the thread so more people will see it.

__cekickafa__: Well.ok

__anynomous__: I think there is little else we can do, we need their input and votesðŸ«¤

__cekickafa__: :+1:

__anynomous__: I think there is not much else to discuss for now.
Lately I am more focussed at code and a bit less on governance.

__cekickafa__: yes, not much to discuss. Thanks for joining as usual:)

__anynomous__: You too.


**Meeting adjourned.**

## *TO DO List*

*   CC: Review and Vote on Groundskeeper Funding Request on the forum.